apps-standalone/hijra-eng-onboarding/content/learn/de-onboarding-foundations/_index.md, before:

---
title: 'DE Onboarding - Foundations'
draft: false
weight: 4
---

This curriculum is designed to onboard programmers into data engineering with a specific focus on PostgreSQL, BigQuery, SQLite, and Kubernetes. Each section is optimized to take approximately 52 minutes (one lunch break), providing a focused learning experience that fits into your daily schedule. It is a part of the Data Engineering curriculum in Hijra Group.

- [Overview](./overview/)

## Phase 1: Python Foundations

- [01 - Python Core Language Essentials](./ch01-python-core-language-essentials/)
- [02 - Python Data Handling and Error Management](./ch02-python-data-handling-and-error-management/)
- [03 - Essential Data Libraries: Numpy and Pandas Basics](./ch03-essential-data-libraries-numpy-and-pandas-basics/)
- [04 - Web Integration and APIs](./ch04-web-integration-and-apis/)
- [05 - Object-Oriented Programming for Data Engineering](./ch05-object-oriented-programming-for-data-engineering/)
- [06 - Checkpoint 1: Python Foundation Review](./ch06-checkpoint-1-python-foundations-review/)

## Phase 2: Python Code Quality

- [07 - Static Typing with Python](./ch07-static-typing-with-python/)
- [08 - Python Annotations and Decorators](./ch08-python-annotations-and-decorators/)
- [09 - Introduction to Testing in Python](./ch09-introduction-to-testing-in-python/)
- [10 - Data Engineering Code Quality](./ch10-data-engineering-code-quality/)
- [11 - Checkpoint 2: Python Code Quality Review](./ch11-checkpoint-2-python-code-quality-review/)

## Phase 3A: Database Fundamentals I

- [12 - SQL Fundamentals with SQLite](./ch12-sql-fundamentals-with-sqlite/)
- [13 - Python and SQLite Integration](./ch13-python-and-sqlite-integration/)
- [14 - Advanced Database Operations with SQLite](./ch14-advanced-database-operations-with-sqlite/)
- [15 - Type-Safe Database Programming](./ch15-type-safe-database-programming/)
- [16 - PostgreSQL Fundamentals](./ch16-postgresql-fundamentals/)
- [17 - Python and PostgreSQL Integration](./ch17-python-and-postgresql-integration/)
- [18 - Checkpoint 3A: Database Fundamentals I Review](./ch18-checkpoint-3a-database-fundamentals-i-review/)

## Phase 3B: Database Fundamentals II

- [19 - Advanced SQL Querying with SQLite](./ch19-advanced-sql-querying-with-sqlite/)
- [20 - SQLite Indexing and Optimization](./ch20-sqlite-indexing-and-optimization/)
- [21 - Advanced PostgreSQL Querying](./ch21-advanced-postgresql-querying/)
- [22 - PostgreSQL Indexing and Optimization](./ch22-postgresql-indexing-and-optimization/)
- [23 - Type-Safe Database Integration](./ch23-type-safe-database-integration/)
- [24 - Checkpoint 3B: Database Fundamentals II Review](./ch24-checkpoint-3b-database-fundamentals-ii-review/)

## Phase 4: Cloud Analytics

- [25 - BigQuery Fundamentals](./ch25-bigquery-fundamentals/)
- [26 - Python and BigQuery Integration](./ch26-python-and-bigquery-integration/)
- [27 - BigQuery Advanced Querying](./ch27-bigquery-advanced-querying/)
- [28 - BigQuery Data Warehousing](./ch28-bigquery-data-warehousing/)
- [29 - BigQuery Optimization Techniques](./ch29-bigquery-optimization-techniques/)
- [30 - Checkpoint 4: Cloud Analytics Review](./ch30-cloud-analytics-review/)

## Phase 5: Analytical Storage

- [31 - Data Lakes with Google Cloud Storage](./ch31-data-lakes-with-google-cloud-storage/)
- [32 - Data Marts with BigQuery](./ch32-data-marts-with-bigquery/)
- [33 - BigQuery and Google Sheets Integration](./ch33-bigquery-and-google-sheets-integration/)
- [34 - Python for Data Lake Processing: Foundations](./ch34-python-for-data-lake-processing-foundations/)
- [35 - Google Cloud Storage Advanced Features](./ch35-google-cloud-storage-advanced-features/)
- [36 - Python for Data Lake Processing: Optimization](./ch36-python-for-data-lake-processing-optimization/)
- [37 - Checkpoint 5: Analytical Storage Review](./ch37-checkpoint-5-analytical-storage-review/)

## Phase 6: Advanced Data Processing

- [38 - Advanced NumPy](./ch38-advanced-numpy/)
- [39 - Advanced Pandas](./ch39-advanced-pandas/)
- [40 - Concurrency in Python](./ch40-concurrency-in-python/)
- [41 - Type-Safe Data Processing](./ch41-type-safe-data-processing/)
- [42 - Testing Data Pipelines](./ch42-testing-data-pipelines/)
- [43 - Advanced Testing Techniques](./ch43-advanced-testing-techniques/)
- [44 - Checkpoint 6: Advanced Data Processing Review](./ch44-checkpoint-6-advanced-data-processing-review/)

## Phase 7: Web and Database Integration

- [45 - Jupyter Notebooks for Data Development](./ch45-jupyter-notebooks-for-data-development/)
- [46 - Data Access Patterns for Applications](./ch46-data-access-patterns-for-applications/)
- [47 - Advanced PostgreSQL Features](./ch47-advanced-postgresql-features/)
- [48 - PostgreSQL Performance Optimization](./ch48-postgresql-performance-optimization/)
- [49 - BigQuery Advanced Optimization](./ch49-bigquery-advanced-optimization/)
- [50 - Data Visualization and BI Tools](./ch50-data-visualization-and-bi-tools/)
- [51 - Checkpoint 7: Web and Database Integration Review](./ch51-checkpoint-7-web-and-database-integration-review/)

## Phase 8: Pipeline Orchestration

- [52 - Introduction to Django](./ch52-introduction-to-django/)
- [53 - Introduction to FastAPI](./ch53-introduction-to-fastapi/)
- [54 - dbt for Data Transformation](./ch54-dbt-for-data-transformation/)
- [55 - Simple Scheduling with Python](./ch55-simple-scheduling-with-python/)
- [56 - Airflow Fundamentals](./ch56-airflow-fundamentals/)
- [57 - Airflow in Docker](./ch57-airflow-in-docker/)
- [58 - Building Complex Airflow Workflows](./ch58-building-complex-airflow-workflows/)
- [59 - Checkpoint 8: Pipeline Orchestration Review](./ch59-checkpoint-8-pipeline-orchestration-review/)

## Phase 9: Production Deployment

- [60 - Docker for Data Applications](./ch60-docker-for-data-applications/)
- [61 - Kubernetes Fundamentals](./ch61-kubernetes-fundamentals/)
- [62 - Deploying Data Applications to Kubernetes](./ch62-deploying-data-applications-to-kubernetes/)
- [63 - PostgreSQL in Kubernetes](./ch63-postgresql-in-kubernetes/)
- [64 - Airflow in Kubernetes](./ch64-airflow-in-kubernetes/)
- [65 - Security Best Practices for Data Pipelines](./ch65-security-best-practices-for-data-pipelines/)
- [66 - Checkpoint 9: Production Deployment Review](./ch66-checkpoint-9-production-deployment-review/)

## Phase 10: Capstone Project

- [67 - Capstone Project Planning](./ch67-capstone-project-planning/)
- [68 - Capstone Project Implementation Part 1](./ch68-capstone-project-implementation-part-1/)
- [69 - Capstone Project Implementation Part 2](./ch69-capstone-project-implementation-part-2/)
- [70 - Capstone Project Implementation Part 3](./ch70-capstone-project-implementation-part-3/)

## Outro

- [Outro](./outro/)

Commit message:

feat(de-onboarding-foundations): Update README for follow along source code

apps-standalone/hijra-eng-onboarding/content/learn/de-onboarding-foundations/_index.md, after:

---
title: 'DE Onboarding - Foundations'
draft: false
weight: 4
---

This curriculum is designed to onboard programmers into data engineering with a specific focus on PostgreSQL, BigQuery, SQLite, and Kubernetes. Each section is optimized to take approximately 52 minutes (one lunch break), providing a focused learning experience that fits into your daily schedule. It is a part of the Data Engineering curriculum in Hijra Group. To follow along, you can visit this onboarding project's [source code](https://github.com/wahidyankf/hijra-eng-onboarding/tree/main/apps-standalone/fa-de-onboarding-foundations)

- [Overview](./overview/)

## Phase 1: Python Foundations

- [01 - Python Core Language Essentials](./ch01-python-core-language-essentials/)
- [02 - Python Data Handling and Error Management](./ch02-python-data-handling-and-error-management/)
- [03 - Essential Data Libraries: Numpy and Pandas Basics](./ch03-essential-data-libraries-numpy-and-pandas-basics/)
- [04 - Web Integration and APIs](./ch04-web-integration-and-apis/)
- [05 - Object-Oriented Programming for Data Engineering](./ch05-object-oriented-programming-for-data-engineering/)
- [06 - Checkpoint 1: Python Foundation Review](./ch06-checkpoint-1-python-foundations-review/)

## Phase 2: Python Code Quality

- [07 - Static Typing with Python](./ch07-static-typing-with-python/)
- [08 - Python Annotations and Decorators](./ch08-python-annotations-and-decorators/)
- [09 - Introduction to Testing in Python](./ch09-introduction-to-testing-in-python/)
- [10 - Data Engineering Code Quality](./ch10-data-engineering-code-quality/)
- [11 - Checkpoint 2: Python Code Quality Review](./ch11-checkpoint-2-python-code-quality-review/)

## Phase 3A: Database Fundamentals I

- [12 - SQL Fundamentals with SQLite](./ch12-sql-fundamentals-with-sqlite/)
- [13 - Python and SQLite Integration](./ch13-python-and-sqlite-integration/)
- [14 - Advanced Database Operations with SQLite](./ch14-advanced-database-operations-with-sqlite/)
- [15 - Type-Safe Database Programming](./ch15-type-safe-database-programming/)
- [16 - PostgreSQL Fundamentals](./ch16-postgresql-fundamentals/)
- [17 - Python and PostgreSQL Integration](./ch17-python-and-postgresql-integration/)
- [18 - Checkpoint 3A: Database Fundamentals I Review](./ch18-checkpoint-3a-database-fundamentals-i-review/)

## Phase 3B: Database Fundamentals II

- [19 - Advanced SQL Querying with SQLite](./ch19-advanced-sql-querying-with-sqlite/)
- [20 - SQLite Indexing and Optimization](./ch20-sqlite-indexing-and-optimization/)
- [21 - Advanced PostgreSQL Querying](./ch21-advanced-postgresql-querying/)
- [22 - PostgreSQL Indexing and Optimization](./ch22-postgresql-indexing-and-optimization/)
- [23 - Type-Safe Database Integration](./ch23-type-safe-database-integration/)
- [24 - Checkpoint 3B: Database Fundamentals II Review](./ch24-checkpoint-3b-database-fundamentals-ii-review/)

## Phase 4: Cloud Analytics

- [25 - BigQuery Fundamentals](./ch25-bigquery-fundamentals/)
- [26 - Python and BigQuery Integration](./ch26-python-and-bigquery-integration/)
- [27 - BigQuery Advanced Querying](./ch27-bigquery-advanced-querying/)
- [28 - BigQuery Data Warehousing](./ch28-bigquery-data-warehousing/)
- [29 - BigQuery Optimization Techniques](./ch29-bigquery-optimization-techniques/)
- [30 - Checkpoint 4: Cloud Analytics Review](./ch30-cloud-analytics-review/)

## Phase 5: Analytical Storage

- [31 - Data Lakes with Google Cloud Storage](./ch31-data-lakes-with-google-cloud-storage/)
- [32 - Data Marts with BigQuery](./ch32-data-marts-with-bigquery/)
- [33 - BigQuery and Google Sheets Integration](./ch33-bigquery-and-google-sheets-integration/)
- [34 - Python for Data Lake Processing: Foundations](./ch34-python-for-data-lake-processing-foundations/)
- [35 - Google Cloud Storage Advanced Features](./ch35-google-cloud-storage-advanced-features/)
- [36 - Python for Data Lake Processing: Optimization](./ch36-python-for-data-lake-processing-optimization/)
- [37 - Checkpoint 5: Analytical Storage Review](./ch37-checkpoint-5-analytical-storage-review/)

## Phase 6: Advanced Data Processing

- [38 - Advanced NumPy](./ch38-advanced-numpy/)
- [39 - Advanced Pandas](./ch39-advanced-pandas/)
- [40 - Concurrency in Python](./ch40-concurrency-in-python/)
- [41 - Type-Safe Data Processing](./ch41-type-safe-data-processing/)
- [42 - Testing Data Pipelines](./ch42-testing-data-pipelines/)
- [43 - Advanced Testing Techniques](./ch43-advanced-testing-techniques/)
- [44 - Checkpoint 6: Advanced Data Processing Review](./ch44-checkpoint-6-advanced-data-processing-review/)

## Phase 7: Web and Database Integration

- [45 - Jupyter Notebooks for Data Development](./ch45-jupyter-notebooks-for-data-development/)
- [46 - Data Access Patterns for Applications](./ch46-data-access-patterns-for-applications/)
- [47 - Advanced PostgreSQL Features](./ch47-advanced-postgresql-features/)
- [48 - PostgreSQL Performance Optimization](./ch48-postgresql-performance-optimization/)
- [49 - BigQuery Advanced Optimization](./ch49-bigquery-advanced-optimization/)
- [50 - Data Visualization and BI Tools](./ch50-data-visualization-and-bi-tools/)
- [51 - Checkpoint 7: Web and Database Integration Review](./ch51-checkpoint-7-web-and-database-integration-review/)

## Phase 8: Pipeline Orchestration

- [52 - Introduction to Django](./ch52-introduction-to-django/)
- [53 - Introduction to FastAPI](./ch53-introduction-to-fastapi/)
- [54 - dbt for Data Transformation](./ch54-dbt-for-data-transformation/)
- [55 - Simple Scheduling with Python](./ch55-simple-scheduling-with-python/)
- [56 - Airflow Fundamentals](./ch56-airflow-fundamentals/)
- [57 - Airflow in Docker](./ch57-airflow-in-docker/)
- [58 - Building Complex Airflow Workflows](./ch58-building-complex-airflow-workflows/)
- [59 - Checkpoint 8: Pipeline Orchestration Review](./ch59-checkpoint-8-pipeline-orchestration-review/)

## Phase 9: Production Deployment

- [60 - Docker for Data Applications](./ch60-docker-for-data-applications/)
- [61 - Kubernetes Fundamentals](./ch61-kubernetes-fundamentals/)
- [62 - Deploying Data Applications to Kubernetes](./ch62-deploying-data-applications-to-kubernetes/)
- [63 - PostgreSQL in Kubernetes](./ch63-postgresql-in-kubernetes/)
- [64 - Airflow in Kubernetes](./ch64-airflow-in-kubernetes/)
- [65 - Security Best Practices for Data Pipelines](./ch65-security-best-practices-for-data-pipelines/)
- [66 - Checkpoint 9: Production Deployment Review](./ch66-checkpoint-9-production-deployment-review/)

## Phase 10: Capstone Project

- [67 - Capstone Project Planning](./ch67-capstone-project-planning/)
- [68 - Capstone Project Implementation Part 1](./ch68-capstone-project-implementation-part-1/)
- [69 - Capstone Project Implementation Part 2](./ch69-capstone-project-implementation-part-2/)
- [70 - Capstone Project Implementation Part 3](./ch70-capstone-project-implementation-part-3/)

## Outro

- [Outro](./outro/)
